All right, so our mission here is to
create composite types out of these two
to make our fictitious component
library just a little bit more solid.
So we say very much the same move
that we pulled last time and
then we'll kind of extend it a little bit.
So here we've got this vertical
alignment-horizontal alignment.
And we can see that makes a and
b happy as we wanted.
Let's see,
we got actually switched us to alignment,
then it will make a and b happy.
A and b are happy cuz they
still expect strength.
A and b are happy, should break is
angry cuz left right isn't a thing.
Should break in first would
eventually work cuz the center
is not a combination of the vertical and
the horizontal.
So, yeah, it does break but we might wanna
say like, okay, we can make it better.
Like what if we wanted center to just,
we don't wanna have to do center center?
That seems a little bit ridiculous.
So what we wanna do is we
wanna be able to make it so
that it will allow for center but
not allow for center center.
So I'm gonna change this one real quick
cuz we want this one to break again.
So this one works and
this one is currently broken, but
we want our API to be center.
So we'll have top left, top center,
top right, and so on, so forth.
But center, instead of center center,
we just want the word center.
So step one, to add center as
an approved type just a union.
And so now if we look,
we've got center, top-center, top-left,
we still got that center-center.
And so how do we pull that out?
How do we exclude it?
That's kind of the answer, right?
Not to put the answer in the question,
but could we say,
Exclude, and
then we wanna take out, Right?
So now we have this idea of an alignment
that is what we would like to see maybe in
the API for our component library.
Right, we've got center center, left,
center, right, top left, top center, so
on and so forth.
But there is no center center.
So you can get, instead of hard coding and
a bunch of type Cs.
Yeah, nine combinations, not that bad.
You could maybe hard coded it in,
but you can see how this grows.
A lot of the programmability though
in TypeScript does leave a little
bit to be desired.
All right, yeah, you could probably
make hex codes work, right?
You're gonna say six
strings of 0 through F.
But you can't do like ranges or
anything like that.
And you can't do like a range of numbers
like whether they're RGB values or
something like that.
That wouldn't work because
you can't do like,
all right, all numbers from 0 to 255.
Now could you make a union type that
was 0 through 255 and do it like that?
Yes, but, yeah, there's one of those
what's the line from Jurassic Park?
They asked if they could not whether or
not they should, right?
So, yes, you could do that but that's
probably taking it a little bit too far.
But I think for creating component
interfaces that are reusable,
these are some powerful tools for
just boxing and
then putting some constraints on how
you intend for a component to be used.
We can do a quick refactoring to see how
this would look in one of our reducers.
So let's pull that up.
And let's see, like could we use this
to create a bunch of our action types?
And again,
it'll be a little on the small side but
enough that I think we can pull it up.
So I'm gonna go back,
I'll go to code sandbox.
That looks like the right one.
Wait for that to come up.
All right, if I go into my reducer, we've
got let's go ahead and
get rid of everything except for the code.
Adjust red, adjust green, adjust blue.
Seems like we could use
what we just learned here.
So we could say something like type
colors cuz, yeah, maybe this eventually
goes on to have HSL and all sorts
of other different kinds of colors.
So we could say
colors are red,
green, blue and,
The action types, just gonna be adjust.
We got to do the template literals here.
So now we can say that this is
simply gonna be for action types.
So we get the same basic result.
There are a few other little things
that we could do here as well.
Like we could, for instance,
be able to use it both in our
JavaScript and
figure out our types based on this.
So could we theoretically have the colors
and maybe abstract some of this as well?
I think that we could.
So we say our colors are red,
green, and blue.
We're gonna say this should be read only,
I don't want this changing.
So this becomes a read only array.
And now we can go ahead and
say instead of hard coding these in.
We could say.
We know in JavaScript, an array is just
an object where the keys are numbers.
So if we look at colors now,
we see it's red, green and blue.
They just need to be uppercase.
It works.
I got to put this here as well.
No, that should work.
Not sure if this is
excellent yelling at me or
not seems to be happy everywhere else.
Yeah, I think that's just a sign
being angry with me again.
Yeah, excellent doesn't,
the excellent built into code
sandbox doesn't respect that.
The template literals exist yet
so it works.
It's just angry about that for right now.
So now I have them in JavaScript so I
could even go ahead and just remove this.
I could say something along the lines of
If the action is a type, I could probably
do this programmatically as well.
Now that I think about it,
you could do this to figure out
how you wanted to make the colors.
You get even more
sophisticated with your types.
But basically we're using
JavaScript to inform our types,
which then we can use
programmatically as well.
Cool, all right, let me stop and
take a look at some of these
questions in the chat.
So one of the question is,
is there more abstract way?
How do I make one of
the interrelations optional?
Should it be possible to have an alignment
that does not have a vertical line
making separate optional as well?
I don't know of the top of my head.
My gut says that you could put one of the
turn areas in there and say like, okay.
Given this case but
like even the attorneys basically can
check to see if they extend other types.
It's not fully like you don't
have everything available to you,
like there might be visiting attorneys.
I'm not sure off the top of my head
if you can make any of that optional.
Again, this is a brand new feature, too.
So it's like it'd be interesting someone
watching this a year from now be like,
yeah, you can totally do those things now.
But at this moment,
I'm pretty sure it's somewhat limited.
But you could theoretically, yeah,
have it go back and forth or go back and
do the tourney of replaced with an empty
string, which would make it shorter.
But I'm not totally sure
where the limitations are.
But, yeah, attorneys would be
the way that I would look into that.